The system in this program makes use of CNN (Convolutional Neural Network) as its base and training the model using a lot of images. The project here highlights on multiple instances of the neural networks using their semantic interpretability, deep dream visualization to predict the analysed results and display it as per-pixel histograms. Our machine learning model used to create these colorization outputs has been trained to work on partially and fully colorized tasks. The aim here is to outperform the latest colorization benchmarks and provide a base for people and students to support and engage in the methods of visual depiction learning.
The process of colorizing the grayscale images is possible by thinking it in relation to what our mind is capable of thinking and its capability to imagine. Our consciousness perceives the leaves as green and the sky as blue in colour. This perception of our mind is what allows us to create a base for this colorization model. This is the reason why the neural network is so named as it is based on the neurons in our brain for thinking and altering our perspective. The complications we have to face in creating this neural algorithm is what we need to work out on in order to realise its importance in fields involving graphic visualization. My purpose in this was to make a tunnel path with the help of neural structures to help in the case of image recognition and object identification.
The kind of approach applied in this project is mainly for making an automatic system which takes a given input and provide a satisfactory analysis better than the past attempts that have been made in this field. Making an attempt at colorizing the grayscale images will escalate their uses in variety of domains such as improvising the efficiency and capabilities of surveillance equipment, perfecting old age photographs and such. The visual data that is provided by a grayscale image is limited and does not give a perfect overview of its semantics. Hence, colorizing grayscale images provide more insights about its properties by adding colour components. Thus, with the help of machine learning models which we train using datasets of colourful images, we attempt on improvising these results. Until recently people have used the method of photoshopping black and white images and we could see that this process could take a month or more, however, with this model we aim to automate this task and make it more reliable and effective for the consequent purposes if our aim is ultimately being to be at par of human eye.
With this purpose, I devised this model which to a certain extent is able to perform colorization of images by utilising the help of a Convolutional Neural Network architecture and datasets from different repositories, I was able to build a CNN trained from the beginning. Also, a decoder -encoder program plus an extractor for reading the image specializations was required in implementing the steps for this project to come out. Due to multiple hardware and time constraints, this model was only accepting a restricted setting of images as input and labels which makes this model underperform a little but also signifies on its potential if it was made into further study. Nevertheless, this report will give you the complete idea of the approach I made into building this model which can help us automate the idea of automatic image colorization.
